---
title: "Year of Utilization"
date: "2019-02-03"
image: "IMG_20191215_152848.jpg"
draft: true
---

In 2019 I acquired a substantial amount of new gear some of which I am still waiting on receiving. Thanks to some fantastic deals on Black Friday I now own enough eurorack modules that I have completely filled my first case and have purchased another. I also have upgraded my camera equipment moving to a Canon 5D Mark IV and a Blackmagic Pocket Cinema Camera 6K and professional lighting and sound equipment. Collecting gear is fun but there is always a tendency to focus on near gear or what is the best and keep swapping gear around without ever actually doing anything with equipment purchased. Sure one might enjoy testing out new features and playing around with it for a bit but I want to move pass that focus on using what I have. 

2020 I want to deep dive in using what I already have available to me. Part of being creative is dealing with limitations. Swapping around hardware is not conductive of mastering how to use the hardware to its full potential. I've not been doing a lot of swapping but I would like to slow down on getting new things. I've obtained enough gear to be able to pursue all the hobbies I am currently interested in. Now is the time to actually create things.

This theme also applies to my computer setup. I recently made the switch to using 100% Linux for my personal computing. Both my computers duel boot Windows but I use it now so infrequently I always have to install updates. Substantial time has been spent getting Linux to work with all the hardware and software I use. This change in OS was enabled by switching from Adobe Premiere as my main editor to Resolve. Last year I canceled my Adobe subscription and have moved to either open source software alternatives or single payment software. I do not have anything against subscriptions services. Most of the time subscription services are a more sustainable business model. People fundamentally underestimate the cost and complexity of software development. Keeping a program running well with constant OS and hardware improvement takes a good amount of effort and having a constant revenue stream increases incentives to continue to develop the software. I have had too many apps that I bought once and a few years later stop getting updates. I have moved from Lightroom to Darktable. From Photoshop to Gimp. From FL Studio to Bitwig. What do all these programs have in common? They support Linux. In some cases the programs I have switch to have been a significant improvement in my workflow like Resolve and Bitwig. I am not a power user in any of them yet because I have not taken the time to learn the software as much as I should.

Right now I don't like Darktable at all. I have a feeling that is mainly because I don't know how to use it properly. I'm use to Lightroom and the Adobe workflow. Editing photos in Darktable takes me hours menu diving because I don't understand how to work in the program. I need to take more photos and get better at post processing. 

Linux allows for easy scripting and automation. Utilization enables me to focus on harnessing that power. Last year I got my computer working although it kind of became a running joke that I had constantly fixed it. This process made me learn more than I care to know about how some things work in Linux like kernel patching and graphics but I know it now. This year I want to move past that and take begin using it in ways that are much harder to do with my old Windows setup. This means scripting Bash utilities to help automate common tasks. Writing Python programs to speed up video editing. Automatic media offloading and backup. I'm sure I will come up with more things as the year comes along and that's part of the point of using themes instead of resolutions.

I've been working a project to develop an open hardware MOCO (Motion Control) rig. Basically it's a robot that moves and controls a camera. In switching to Linux I moved from Inventor to Fusion 360. This switch I have found, unlike Darktable, I have enjoyed. I think this is mainly because they are both Autodesk programs which lessens the learning curve.
